Psych Tool

Installation

Windows

Make sure that OpenGL drivers are installed and up to date. The minimum version required is OpenGL 3.0. The optimum driver version would be 4.5
These can be found at the following link.
https://developer.nvidia.com/opengl-driver

Linux

Make sure OpenGL is installed. This can be done by running the command:
"sudo apt-get install libglu1-mesa-dev freeglut3-dev mesa-common-dev"
inside your terminal.

Application Use

Algorithms can be run by clicking the buttons on the side of the application.
The buttons are named by which algorithm they create.
The clear button will clear what is currently drawn upon the canvas.
The save button will save what is currently drawn on the screen to a .bmp file that is saved within the programs execution directory.
The exit button at the bottom of the program will exit/shutdown the program.

Menu System

When altering the variables for each algorithm make sure that the current algorithm is being drawn to the screen to see the changes in real-time.
The first section contains all the variables that are used in the generation of the first algorithm. These can be edited manually. The random colours checkbox will draw algorithm1 in random colours.

The second section refers to all the variables in algorithm2. The first variable alters the z-axis of the cube. The higher this variable is the closer to the screen it is. The lower this variable is the further away the cube is drawn to the screen.
The second variable will spin the cube according to the number given. A positive integer will spin the cube clockwise. A negative integer will spin the cube counter-clockwise. 
A high integer will spin the cube faster.

The third section refers to the variables used in the generation of algorithm3.
The iterations variable refers to how many times a vertex will be drawn.
The shape type drop down box will change how the vertexes are drawn. For example, with individual points or can be changed to "GL_LINES" to generate each vertex with lines.
If "GL_POINTS" is selected as a shape type the iterations should be higher than 100,000 for the results to be seen clearly.
If a high iterations number is given for any shape type other than "GL_POINTS" this may cause the program to experience performance issues.


Random Number Generation

Random variables can be generated for each of the algorithm variables by using the "Generate Random Numbers Button".
Random shape types can be generated for algorithm3 by using the "Generate Random Shape Type" Button.
Random values for the variables can be generated by using text by entering text into the textbox located on the bottom right hand of the menu screen.
If text is used to generate random numbers the same numbers will be generated if the same text is entered. For example "Test" will always generate the same values.

Text Area

Variables that generate pleasing images can be temporarily saved by entering them into the corresponding area into the textbox on the right hand side of the menu section.



